Finding a Return Address
As a final step, we need to find a valid
assembly instruction to redirect code
execution to the memory location pointed
to by the ESP register.
The EDB debugger comes with a set of
plugins,
one of which is named OpcodeSearcher.
Using this plugin, we can easily search
for a JMP ESP instruction or equivalent,
in the memory region where the code
section of the crossfire application
is mapped.
We choose to proceed using the first JMP
ESP instruction found by the debugger.
We’re getting closer so let’s restart
everything before we continue.
Before we work on our next proof of
concept,
let’s set a breakpoint on our JMP ESP
return address.
We can do this with the EDB Breakpoint
Manager plugin.
We’ll click Add Breakpoint and paste in
the address of the JMP ESP instruction.
With our breakpoint set, we’ll let the
application run and return to Kali.
Putting the overwrite offset,
return address,
and first stage shellcode together,
gives us our next proof-of-concept.
With the breakpoint set, we can run the
proof-of-concept.
If everything has gone according to plan,
our debugger should have stopped at the
JMP ESP instruction.
The breakpoint has been hit.
Now we can proceed to single-step into
the JMP ESP instruction
and land at our first stage shellcode.
After executing the initial first stage
shellcode instruction
we find that the EAX register now points
to the beginning of our controlled buffer
right after the “setup sound” string.
Once the EAX register is aligned by our
first stage shellcode,
a JMP EAX instruction brings us into a
nice, clean buffer of A’s.
We’re nearly finished so let’s restart
and re-attach.